docs: RBF policy and mempool limit exemptions (#23711)
bitcoin/bitcoin: doc/policy/mempool-replacements.md

   *Rationale*: Only requiring the replacement transaction to have a higher feerate could allow an
   attacker to bypass node minimum relay feerate requirements and cause the network to repeatedly
   relay slightly smaller replacement transactions without adding any more fees.

4. The additional fees (difference between absolute fee paid by the replacement transaction and the
   sum paid by the original transactions) must pay for the replacement transaction's bandwidth at or
   above the rate set by the node's incremental relay feerate. For example, if the incremental relay
   feerate is 1 satoshi/vB and the replacement transaction is 500 virtual bytes total, then the
   replacement must pay a fee at least 500 satoshis higher than the sum of the original transactions.

   *Rationale*: Prevent a DoS attack where an attacker causes the network to repeatedly relay
   transactions each paying a tiny additional amount in fees, e.g. just 1 satoshi.

5. The number of original transactions must not exceed 100. More precisely, the sum of all
   directly conflicting transactions' descendant counts (number of transactions inclusive of itself
   and its descendants) must not exceed 100.

>    *Rationale*: Prevent a DoS attack where an attacker is able to easily occupy and flush out
>    significant portions of the node's mempool using replacements.

Reviewer: This rule confused me a bit when I first encountered it, I think it can be worth clarifying that the attacker would replace multiple transactions at once that each have many descendants, what do you think?

```suggestion
   *Rationale*: Prevent a DoS attack where an attacker is able to easily occupy and flush out
   significant portions of the node's mempool by replacing multiple independent chains of
   transactions at once.
```

Author: Added!

# Mempool Replacements

## Current Replace-by-Fee Policy

A transaction conflicts with an in-mempool transaction ("directly conflicting transaction") if they
spend one or more of the same inputs. A transaction may conflict with multiple in-mempool
transactions.

A transaction ("replacement transaction") may replace its directly conflicting transactions and
their in-mempool descendants (together, "original transactions") if, in addition to passing all

> other consensus and policy rules, each of the following conditions are met:

Reviewer 2: Defining "directly conflicting txs", "replacement tx" and "original txs" is neat :+1:

> 1. The directly conflicting transactions must all signal replaceability explicitly. A transaction is

Reviewer 3: The "must", "may", etc words in these conditions are redundant with the sentence above and can be removed

```
... all of the following conditions are met:

1. The directly conflicting transactions all signal...
2. The replacement transaction only includes ...
```

Author: Removed

   signaling replaceability if any of its inputs have an nSequence number less than (0xffffffff - 1).

   *Rationale*: See [BIP125
   explanation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0125.mediawiki#motivation).

2. The replacement transaction may only include an unconfirmed input if that input was included in
   one of the directly conflicting transactions. An unconfirmed input spends an output from a
   currently-unconfirmed transaction.

   *Rationale*: When RBF was originally implemented, the mempool did not keep track of

>    ancestor scores yet. This rule was suggested as a temporary restriction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ancestor fee rates yet. This rule was suggested as a temporary restriction.
```

(perhaps also add a link to the discussion)

Author: Ah good catch. I tend to use them interchangably

3. The replacement transaction must pay an absolute fee of at least the sum paid by the original
   transactions.

   *Rationale*: Only requiring the replacement transaction to have a higher feerate could allow an
   attacker to bypass node minimum relay feerate requirements and cause the network to repeatedly

>    relay slightly smaller replacement transactions without adding any more fees.

Author: Ah yes, added "Additionally, if any of the original transactions would be included in the next block assembled by an economically rational miner, a replacement policy allowing the replacement transaction to decrease the absolute  fees in the next block would be incentive-incompatible."

4. The additional fees (difference between absolute fee paid by the replacement transaction and the
   sum paid by the original transactions) must pay for the replacement transaction's bandwidth at or
   above the rate set by the node's incremental relay feerate. For example, if the incremental relay
   feerate is 1 satoshi/vB and the replacement transaction is 500 virtual bytes total, then the
   replacement must pay a fee at least 500 satoshis higher than the sum of the original transactions.

   *Rationale*: Try to attempt DoS attacks where an attacker causes the network to repeatedly relay
   transactions each paying a tiny additional amount in fees, e.g. just 1 satoshi.

5. The number of original transactions must not exceed 100. More precisely, the sum of all
   directly conflicting transactions' descendant counts (number of transactions inclusive of itself

>    and its descendants) must not exceed 100.

Author: Added "it is possible that this overestimates the true number of original transactions"

   *Rationale*: Try to prevent DoS attacks where an attacker is able to easily occupy and flush out
   significant portions of the node's mempool using replacements with multiple directly conflicting
   transactions, each with large descendant sets.

> This set of rules is similar but distinct from BIP125.

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure I understand what you mean here by "similar but distinct" ? Maybe say we're partial implementation of BIP125 as we have at least one known divergence (though maybe fixed by #22698)

Author: I think there's a lot of differences and it may change over time, so it's better to just say they're distinct than try to convey a measurement of how different they are. I also don't like the framing of "partial implementation", since the goal was never to implement BIP125. If anything, BIP125 is a partial description of our code.

More differences:
- We use the node's incrementalRelayFee, not minrelayfeerate now, so if the user sets something different for those two values, we're diverging from BIP125
- We use the sum of directly conflicting transactions' descendant counts, not the exact number of original transactions.

Reviewer 4: > since the goal was never to implement BIP125

Yes BIP125 was written from Core's implementation. Thanks for the explanation, I agree :)

3. The replacement transaction pays an absolute fee of at least the sum paid by the original
   transactions.

   *Rationale*: Only requiring the replacement transaction to have a higher feerate could allow an
   attacker to bypass node minimum relay feerate requirements and cause the network to repeatedly
   relay slightly smaller replacement transactions without adding any more fees. Additionally, if
   any of the original transactions would be included in the next block assembled by an economically
   rational miner, a replacement policy allowing the replacement transaction to decrease the absolute
   fees in the next block would be incentive-incompatible.

4. The additional fees (difference between absolute fee paid by the replacement transaction and the
   sum paid by the original transactions) pays for the replacement transaction's bandwidth at or
   above the rate set by the node's incremental relay feerate. For example, if the incremental relay
   feerate is 1 satoshi/vB and the replacement transaction is 500 virtual bytes total, then the
   replacement pays a fee at least 500 satoshis higher than the sum of the original transactions.

>    *Rationale*: Try to attempt DoS attacks where an attacker causes the network to repeatedly relay

Reviewer: nit: I guess you mean:

```suggestion
   *Rationale*: Try to prevent DoS attacks where an attacker causes the network to repeatedly relay
```

Author: gahhh how embarrassing 🤦 thank you @t-bast!
